lucky you you're leaving for mars
and can only bring one thing with you if
you choose your phone
will it keep working for a long time or
break as soon as you arrive
answer these questions to discover if
you need a new phone
before liftoff does your phone keep
turning on and off by itself
and is it taking longer and longer to go
back to working mode
that most likely means that something is
wrong with the battery
batteries in some models can be easily
replaced but
it's impossible for others does your
phone overheat even when you aren't
using it
first try removing the case and
replacing it with one that offers more
airflow
if that doesn't help something might be
seriously wrong with its internal
hardware
you should take your phone to an expert
before it becomes a real hazard
are there vertical lines across the
screen
lines bands flickering and other screen
anomalies
are all signs something is wrong with
your hardware if the lines are
completely
blocking the view try turning the phone
off and back on
abruptly this is just a temporary fix
though
do you feel like you're using a dial-up
modem every time you run an app
if your touchscreen gets super slow and
your phone
ignores your swipes it means your
processor isn't fast enough to handle os
updates
some manufacturers say they've slowed
down phones to save battery life
if replacing the battery doesn't help it
means the issue
is more serious has the power button
stopped responding
this can be especially annoying if your
phone turns on and off by itself
because of other hardware issues but to
turn a sleeping phone back on when the
power button doesn't work
try plugging your phone into a computer
a charging port can also help
it should turn on in a minute or two
does the battery refuse to hold a charge
for at least a half a day
your phone's battery is powered by
chemical reactions
all the ions and electrons inside it run
in cycles
the more full cycles your battery is
used the lower
charging potential it has left if you
use your phone in the cold or extreme
heat
the battery is aging even faster
do apps crash all the time sometimes
it's the app's fault
but if it runs okay on everyone else's
phone
then yours is to blame apps are
optimized for newer phones and operating
systems
your memory might just be too low for
the app to function properly is the
battery bulging
bulging and hissing noises are warning
signs that
chemicals are breaking down inside the
battery such serious physical changes
can cause your battery to even catch
fire or your phone to short circuit let
a professional deal with it asap
does it take forever to snap a photo
unless you're taking
a low light photo with night mode
capture time shouldn't be an eternity
do you no longer feel excited about
sharing your pictures and videos
even the best photo editing app won't
fix a grainy blurry
low resolution picture that looks like
it was taken through an old screen
door it's understandable if you have an
older phone
but if yours is a newer model it could
be a defect
too bad you can't replace just the phone
camera
do you need special skills to plug in
the headphones
it shouldn't take five minutes of trying
to find the only position the cord will
let the sound through
you could get wireless headphones but a
broken headphone jack is likely just the
first sign of your phone's slow demise
have you dropped your phone more than
once
even if it looks fine on the outside
something could be seriously damaged on
the inside and getting less effective
a cracked screen is bad for your eyes
worn out buttons can stop responding
and if you text in the rain or even keep
your phone on the bathroom counter while
you shower
water might have gotten inside without
you knowing
you've deleted a bunch of stuff but are
still out of storage space
as apps and operating systems get more
advanced and offer cool new features
they also grow in size so even if you
move
all your photos and videos to the cloud
and leave just three of your favorite
apps
you can still get the memory as full
message on an older phone
do your friends keep asking what did you
say
a microphone or speaker that only works
from time to time
is another red flag you can always use
headphones
or stick to texting but then again the
damage won't
end there do you struggle to find
updates
phone models come out every year with
fancy designs and awesome new features
as this happens manufacturers no longer
bother with
security updates for phones they
consider vintage
that's any phone older than five years
wow
no security updates means your data is
in danger
did the new os fail to install
it might have to do with your battery
draining to zero during the install
a power outage or faulty software but
most likely your hardware is just too
old to handle that new system
a phone with a 32-bit processor won't
work with a 64-bit os
has your dream of vr apps not come true
you can try installing a cool vr app or
a game on your phone to test its ram and
internal graphics
if the app runs smoothly it's all good
if it installs
but doesn't work well your phone doesn't
have the most up-to-date tech
is shopping for phone accessories more
like a scavenger hunt
you can't find a screen projector for
your model you only get to choose
between
two tacky phone cases and the car mount
is too large to fit or
overpriced at some point repair costs
will also skyrocket
is your mobile internet so slow it makes
you want to cry
lte is 10 times faster than 3g
older phones can't connect to it either
so if you have to look for wi-fi to
download an
app or pause videos to let them buffer
that's another reason for an upgrade
wi-fi doesn't make things better either
new hardware and new software work
together as a dream team
all the elements of web pages load in a
matter of
seconds so even if you're using the same
wi-fi network
a newer phone will always be faster
do you want 10 cameras in your phone and
it only has two or three
do you need laser assisted focus would
you benefit from a built-in
full-scale planetarium
okay ignore those last three questions
if you answered yes even in some of the
other cases
it looks like you need a new phone